---
title: My Resume
updated: 2016-10-07 11:19
---

My resume been around for a while in it's current format (a repository on GitHub), but I thought I'd cross post and promote it here as well.  It's a small Node.js app that takes the content of the resume in JSON format and then uses that to render a single page website.

Why would I provide my resume like this instead of PDF (or Microsoft Word document)? Easy, barrier to entry. I used to get tons of inquiries from recruiters and a lot of them were straight up spam, showing me that the recruiter wasn't doing any due diligence to learn something about me and instead just grabbed my email address off of the top of the resume.  Some of the common failures were:

* I wasn't qualified for the position they were trying to fill (ie. they were looking for a Windows Server administrator).

* The position was in a market I'm not willing to work in (ie. they were looking to fill a position on the San Francisco Bay area... I live in Atlanta, GA and have stated in my resume that I am not willing to relocate).

* The inquiry was clearly a form letter (ie. my name isn't "Insert Name Here").

Having the resume in a format that requires 'decoding' I am assured of the following:

* The recruiter has taken the time to actually learn something about me and what I have to offer.

* The recruiter is technically proficient and can accurately answer questions about the position they are trying to fill.

_(**Full disclosure**: I include a step-by-step in the repository `README.md` complete with code examples... so there isn't any sort of mystery to solve to get the output.)_

If you're a recruiter and are reading this, kudos to you!  If you like what you've read and want check out my resume:

> Take a look at it [**here**](https://github.com/skingry/resume).
