---
title: 'Professionals in a Soviet America'
updated: 2018-02-25T17:00:00-05:00
---

> During the last few years, American professional workers have lost their former indifference to political matters. They used to think that science and culture could progress indefinitely within the framework of capitalist society, and that the periodic dislocations of the "business world" did not influence their work or their professional lives. This illusion has been shattered by recent events. The economic crisis of capitalist and the growth of fascism, on the one hand, and the building socialism in the Soviet Union, on the other hand, have had direct effects upon every field of human endeavor and every category of men. Professional workers have felt these effects, and they have begun to understand how intimately their lives are connected with political events. They know that the course and the outcome of the present intense political struggles are of the greatest importance for them. However, they are not yet clear as to what the nature of these struggles is, what the possible outcomes are, and exactly what effects the outcomes on them will be.

So opens _Professionals in a Soviet America_ by Edward Magnus, published in the midst of the Great Depression (November of 1935). It bears the imprint of _Workers Library Publishers_, which was used by the Communist Party's aboveground arm - the [Workers Party of America](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Workers_Party_of_America) - and whose pamphlets would have been advertised in _The Daily Worker_.

The title is a fairly late use of the "Soviet America" slogan, as in W.Z. Foster's [Toward Soviet America](https://www.marxists.org/archive/foster/1932/toward/index.htm), written to support his 1932 presidential bid on the communist ticket. A few months before this edition was published, the [Seventh World Congress of the Comintern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seventh_World_Congress_of_the_Comintern) had already ratified the [Popular Front](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Popular_front) strategy, taking such slogans out of circulation in favor of those which downplayed the party's international ties and presented communist ideology as a natural outgrowth of endogenous political traditions (e.g. [_"Communism is the Americanism of the Twentieth Century!"_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earl_Browder#/media/File:37-howard-this4thofjuly.jpg)).

The back cover advertises other titles in the series of which this pamphlet was a part: _The Negroes in a Soviet America_ (co-authored by Foster's vice-presidential running mate in the 1932 campaign, [James W. Ford](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_W._Ford)), _The Miners' Road to Freedom_, _The Farmers' Way Out_, _Social Security in a Soviet America_, and _Happy Days for American Youth_.
